---
layout: post
categories: Node.js
tags: [Node.js, Javascript, Event]

---

Most core objects of node.js are build on an asynchronous event-driven architecture.
In this architecture, emitters emit **named events** and trigger listeners to be called.
All objects that emit events are instances of the `EventEmitter` class. Each event has a
corresponding `eventEmitter.on()` function. Other functions can be attached to the events
emitted by the object.

When the `EventEmitter` object emits an event, all of the functions attached to that specific 
event are called **synchronously**. Any values returned by the called listeners are ignored and will be discarded.
In the following example, `MyEmitter` is a emitter. It creates an instance of this emitter and register
a function for the `event` event. Finally, this instance emits an event and trigger the registered function
to be called.

```
const EventEmitter = require('events');
class MyEmitter extends EventEmitter {}

const myEmitter = new MyEmitter();
myEmitter.on('event', () => {
  console.log('an event occurred!');
});

myEmitter.emit('event');
```

The `eventEmitter.emit()` method allows an arbitrary set of arguments to be passed to the listener functions.

```
const myEmitter = new MyEmitter();
myEmitter.on('event', function(a, b) {
  console.log(a, b, this);
});
myEmitter.emit('event', 'a', 'b');
```

When the ES6 Arrow Functions are used, the `this` keyword will no longer reference the **EventEmitter** instance.

```
myEmitter.on('event', (a, b) => {
  console.log(a, b, this);
  // Prints: a b {}
});
```

Using the `eventEmitter.once()` method, it is possible to register a listener that is called at most once for a 
particular event. Once the event is emitted, the listener is unregistered and then called.

```
const myEmitter = new MyEmitter();
let m = 0;
myEmitter.once('event', () => {
  console.log(++m);
});
myEmitter.emit('event');
// Prints: 1
myEmitter.emit('event');
// Ignored
```

### EventEmitter Class

The `EventEmitter` class is defined and exposed by the events module:

> const EventEmitter = require('events');

All EventEmitters emit the event 'newListener' when new listeners are added and 'removeListener' when existing listeners are removed.
By default, a maximum of 10 listeners can be registered for any single event. 
The EventEmitter instance will allow more listeners to be added but will output a trace warning to stderr indicating that a "possible EventEmitter memory leak" has been detected. 
